Hey so i have created a class for the database connection based on the tutorial stuart was using. 
I then conntinued on to create some insert functions that we should be able to use for all the pages that i think we will need along with some update statements for the types of thing s i have setup in the database to update.

There are a few problems with the current implimentation:

1) putting information in
The values we need to insert need to be defined as variable in the visual studio forms.

2) putting information in 
I need help to know how to do this. I need to know hoe to create a placeholder variable in Visual studio and then refrence it in the SQL script 
(refrencing it will probebly be the easiest part just need to really know how to create a varable ie problem 1).

3) Retireivinginformation to the application
Need to work out a make select function statements in VS. and where /what i need to return the information into. (i dont know what i can put on the application form to return values into). once i know how to do this i think we should have smooth sailing as i have most of the select statements ready to go and tested in mysql.

4) retireving informaion and security
Need to work out the signin function and how it will determine the form types that will be avalible to people. I can write a function to look up the UserID, the associated hashed password & the access_lvl but these will need to be compared tot he values the user gives on the form & a true false case i think should be implemented. 

5) more forms
Think that we need some more forms to update information once in the database from. this should be restricted to users.
1 form Update personnel details: (created a function these already in DBconnnect class)
Address 
Phone  

6)
documentation needs to be looked at and compeleted. 


This foldercontains the most recent version of the Database as well as it has had another minor change i have added 2 date tiem fields to the incident tabel to help witrh people management. 
Up to you if you want to upgrade your db other wise it will only need to be changed for the final submission. 

Thanks
Ryan
 
any questions reguarding this document can be direct to me via email, facebook or phone
email: ryanjopo@hotmail.com
phone: 0421463345




